Agreeable Blood Flamingo

medium

# `_checkBidAmount` function have a strict equality check, which cause revert when not really needed.

## Summary
The `_checkBidAmount` function is checking if calculatedFeeAmount is strictly equal to the feeAmount. However, it is noticing that it's uncommon for the calculatedFeeAmount to be exactly equal to the provided fee amount cause of potential rounding errors or if the bidder has provided more feeAmount than calculatedFeeAmount.

## Vulnerability Detail
The strict equality check (==) in the `_checkBidAmount` function can lead to the DOS when we actually do not need the revert cause what if the bidder has provided more feeAmount than calculatedFeeAmount. In this case `_checkBidAmount` function will revert even though the feeAmount is greater than the expected fees and it is really uncommon that bidder will provide the collateralAmount including the exact calculatedFeeAmount.

## Impact
The `placeBid` function will revert unnecessarily due to minor difference in the calculatedFeeAmount and feeAmount. This will result in users being unable to place valid bids even though the fee amounts are reasonably close.

## Code Snippet
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-02-radicalxchange/blob/main/pco-art/contracts/auction/EnglishPeriodicAuctionInternal.sol#L614

## Tool used
Manual Review

## Recommendation
The recommended mitigation is to use ( <= ) instead of ( == ) operator cause it will allow the bidder to make the bid if the provided feeAmount is greater than the calculatedFeeAmount.

The recommended mitigation in code:
```diff
   function _checkBidAmount(
        uint256 bidAmount,//bid Amount
        uint256 feeAmount //Fee amount
    ) internal view returns (bool) {
        uint256 calculatedFeeAmount = _calculateFeeFromBid(bidAmount); 
+       return calculatedFeeAmount <= feeAmount;
-       return calculatedFeeAmount == feeAmount;
    }
```