Melted Misty Chipmunk

high

# The highest bidder for the current auction round is able to claim their collateral in addition to the auctioned tokenId

## Summary

The highest bidder for any round may cancel their bids and receive collateral they are not entitled to while receiving the tokenId when auction closes.

## Vulnerability Detail

A bidder may call the `_cancelBid` function in `EnglishPeriodicAuctionInternal.sol` to cancel a bid from a specific round but cannot cancel if they have the highest bid for that round. This prevents the winning bidder from reclaiming collateral needed for the auction while also claiming the license when the auction ends.

The `_cancelAllBids` function allows a bidder to cancel all bids for a tokenId up to and including the current auction round. This function does not restrict cancelling if the bidder has the highest bid and the bidder's availableCollateral is increased by the collateralAmount of the bid to be cancelled. The bidder with the highest bid for the current auction round may cancel the bid and claim the collateral. Since the bidder for the highestBid is not changed, when the auction is closed the bidder that cancelled their bid (the highest bid) will receive the token.

When an auction is closed the bid's collateralAmount is zeroed so in order to claim collateral while having the highest bid the bidder must call `_cancelAllBids` before the `_closeAuction` function is called. Bidders could only steal collateral for the current auction round for which they have the highest bid.

## Impact

Malicious users could bid any amount to win the auction and call `cancelAllBids` to recover their collateral before the auction is closed.

## Code Snippet

[EnglishPeriodicAuctionInternal.sol#L416-L434](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-02-radicalxchange/blob/main/pco-art/contracts/auction/EnglishPeriodicAuctionInternal.sol#L416-L434)

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

Add a check to the `_cancelAllBids` function that reverts if the bidder has the highest bid for a round.