Tiny Vanilla Crow

medium

# User cannot bid with startingBid

## Summary

After startingBid is set to 0, users cannot bid for a price of 0

## Vulnerability Detail

If the startingBid is set to 0, it means that the nft is allowed to be obtained with a value of 0, but the user cannot use an order with a bid of 0.

Because when bidding, it will be checked whether it is enough to pay the feeAmount, and the user's collateral amount must be greater than the bid order.

When the user's bid is 0, his collateral must be greater than 0, but since bidAmount is 0, his feeAmount will also be 0, which will cause the check of the _checkBidAmount function to fail.

```solidity
    function _placeBid(
        uint256 tokenId,
        address bidder,
        uint256 bidAmount,
        uint256 collateralAmount
    ) internal {
...

        if (bidder == currentBidder) {
            // If current bidder, collateral is entire fee amount
            feeAmount = totalCollateralAmount;
        } else {
            require(
                totalCollateralAmount > bidAmount,
                'EnglishPeriodicAuction: Collateral must be greater than current bid'
            );
            // If new bidder, collateral is bidAmount + fee
            feeAmount = totalCollateralAmount - bidAmount;
        }

        require(
            _checkBidAmount(bidAmount, feeAmount),
            'EnglishPeriodicAuction: Incorrect bid amount'
        );

...
    }
```

Because checkBidAmount calculates the fee as a percentage of the user's bid, when the user bid is 0, the calculated value of bidAmount will be 0, and the feeAmount calculation method in the _placeBid function is calculated through `totalCollateralAmount - bidAmount`, the function _checkBidAmount will return false.

The impact is actually not big, but it violates the requirement of invariants. When startingBid is 0, 0 should also be used to compete for price. An invariant is violated, so the level is not considered medium.

## Impact

User cannot bid with startingBid

## Code Snippet

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-02-radicalxchange/blob/main/pco-art/contracts/auction/EnglishPeriodicAuctionInternal.sol#L334-L340

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

You need to consider the situation where 0 is the startingBid. In addition, if the startingBid has been fixed to allow bidding with 0, you also need to pay attention to the bugs that may be introduced in the `check if highest bid` part.

