Petite Mango Goat

high

# A `tie` bid can be placed to keep on rolling the bid till end and gain the stewardship

## Summary
If `minBidIncrement = 0`, which can be since it is set by the artist/collection owner at minting, the bidder can always submit a tie bid and game the system. 
## Vulnerability Detail
The `_placeBid()` function is used to place a new bid when the auction starts, but it has a vulnerability which can be exploited by a malicious bidder to game the system. The winning bid must always be greater than the initial bid and the highest bid which is not the case as per the code.

There are 2 checks in place to ensure the new bid is greater than the `startingBid` and the `highest Bid`

## 1. First check in the first require block :

The above check doesn't ensure a strict comparison The `bidAmount` in the above case can also be equal to the `startingBid` in this case someone can also submit a bid amount as the startingBid and can assume Stewardship of the work if no subsequent bidders come for that work!
Now notice there are 2 checks in place and for this attack to take place the `minBidIncrement` must be = `0` in the next require block. and then both the checks will be passed.

```solidity
  require(
            bidAmount >= l.startingBid,
            'EnglishPeriodicAuction: Bid amount must be greater than or equal to starting bid'
        );
```


## 2 . Second check in the second require block :

Now if the bidder passes the first require block he must have to pass the 2nd require block if he wants to keep on submitting the tie bid and gain the  Stewardship of the work which can be easily achieved if  `minBidIncrement` = 0, since `minBidIncrement` is set by the artist/collection owner at minting, it can be the case where collection owner sets it to 0, and then the 2nd check can also be easily passed.     

```solidity
  if (l.highestBids[tokenId][currentAuctionRound].bidAmount > 0) {
            require(
                bidAmount >=
                    l.highestBids[tokenId][currentAuctionRound].bidAmount +
                        l.minBidIncrement,
                'EnglishPeriodicAuction: Bid amount must be greater than highest outstanding bid'
            );
        }
```


       
## Impact
The impact would be gaming of the auction and also bricking the whole point of auction in the first place.
## Code Snippet
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-02-radicalxchange/blob/main/pco-art/contracts/auction/EnglishPeriodicAuctionInternal.sol#L306-L312

```solidity
 if (l.highestBids[tokenId][currentAuctionRound].bidAmount > 0) {
            require(
                bidAmount >=
                    l.highestBids[tokenId][currentAuctionRound].bidAmount +
                        l.minBidIncrement,
                'EnglishPeriodicAuction: Bid amount must be greater than highest outstanding bid'
            );
        }
```
## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation
To solve this there should be 2 improvements to be made :
### 1. Replace the first require statement with the strict comparison :

```diff
+ require(
+          bidAmount > l.startingBid,
+        'EnglishPeriodicAuction: Bid amount must be greater than or equal to starting bid'
+  );
```        
### 2. add a check to properly ensure `minBidIncrement > 0` while initiating the auction
