Polished Strawberry Dolphin

medium

# Bidders are susceptible to bidding parameters changes during on ongoing auction

## Summary

There are auction parameters that can be changed during on ongoing auction, such as `minBidIncrement`, `startingBid`, `bidExtensionSeconds`, and `bidExtensionWindowLengthSeconds`.

A bidder might be posting bids based on the auction parameters that were set as they were posting their transaction , but those parameters can change by the time their transactions are processed (or if the transactions are setting in mempool waiting to be executed). The change in parameters do not have to be with malicious intent, and can just be non-malicious updates which can affect bidders negatively.

## Links to affected code

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-02-radicalxchange/blob/main/pco-art/contracts/auction/EnglishPeriodicAuctionStorage.sol#L8-L27

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-02-radicalxchange/blob/main/pco-art/contracts/auction/facets/EnglishPeriodicAuctionFacet.sol

## Vulnerability Detail

The following auction parameters are global parameters, and are not related to the tokens or the rounds.

```solidity
// The minimum required bid
uint256 startingBid;
// How much each incremental big should be larger by
uint256 minBidIncrement;
// How long is the auction extended by if someone places a bid
uint256 bidExtensionSeconds;
// The time window by which an auction can be incremented by `bidExtensionSeconds` once a bid is placed
uint256 bidExtensionWindowLengthSeconds;
```

These parameters can be updated while an auction is ongoing, and the bidders can be affected by those changes as their bidding strategy can be based on the previous auction parameters. This can negatively the strategies of the bidders, and they can lose out on the bids.

## Impact

For each of the parameters mentioned above, here are a few examples of how the changes can negatively affect bidders:

#### startingBid
If this value is decreased, then a bidder mighy unknowlingly post a higher bid that required.

For example, if `startingBid` was set to 10, and then a bidder posts a bid of 10 ETH, but while the bidder was doing so, the value of `startingBid` was changed to 1 ETH. The bidder posted a bid of 10 ETH, even though they were just required to post a bid of 1 ETH. The bidder could have won the bid with just 1 ETH, but now they have lost 9 more ETH.

#### minBidIncrement

If this is reduced, then a bidder might unknowingly post a higher competitive bid to get the highest bid.

For example, if `minBidIncrement` was set to 10, and the last winning bid was 60, and a new bidder posted a bid of 70 ETH, but at the same time the value of `minBidIncrement` was updated to 1. In this case, the new bidder was just required to post a bid of 61 ETH, and not 70 ETH.  The bidder could have won the bid with just 61 ETH, but now they have lost 9 more ETH.

#### bidExtensionSeconds and bidExtensionWindowLengthSeconds

If this is increased or decreased, then it can affect the winning bidders or other potential bidders.

Increased: In this case, the winning bidder might assume that no one else can post a competitive bid within `bidExtensionSeconds`, or `bidExtensionWindowLengthSeconds`. But if `bidExtensionSeconds` or `bidExtensionWindowLengthSeconds` was increased, then it can allow another competitive bidder to post a winning bid, thereby the previous winning bidder will need to post a higher bid by atleast `minBidIncrement` to win the bid again. This can lead to the strategy of the bidder from not working.

Decreased: A competitive bidder might assume that they have have `bidExtensionSeconds` or `bidExtensionWindowLengthSeconds` time to post a new bid, but if the value of `bidExtensionSeconds` or `bidExtensionWindowLengthSeconds` is reduced, then they might miss out on being able to post a competitive winning bid.

## Code Snippet
Place the below code in `test/auction/EnglishPeriodicAuction.ts`, and run using `yarn run hardhat test`:

```javascript
describe.only('PoC', function () {
  it('minBidIncrement increases', async function () {

    const instance = await getInstance({
      hasOwner: true,
      auctionLengthSeconds: 300,
      initialPeriodStartTime: (await time.latest()) - 200,
      licensePeriod: 1000,
    });

    await instance.connect(owner).setMinBidIncrement(ethers.utils.parseEther('100'));

    // Bidder 1 prepares and places a bid
    const bidder1_bidAmount = ethers.utils.parseEther('10');
    const bidder1_feeAmount = await instance.calculateFeeFromBid(bidder1_bidAmount);
    const bidder1_collateralAmount = bidder1_feeAmount.add(bidder1_bidAmount);
    await instance
      .connect(bidder1)
      .placeBid(0, bidder1_bidAmount, { value: bidder1_collateralAmount });

    // Bidder 2 prepares the bid
    const bidder2_bidAmount = bidder1_bidAmount.add(ethers.utils.parseEther('100'));
    const bidder2_feeAmount = await instance.calculateFeeFromBid(bidder2_bidAmount);
    const bidder2_collateralAmount = bidder2_feeAmount.add(bidder2_bidAmount);

    // But before the bid can be placed, the parameters get changed
    await instance.connect(owner).setMinBidIncrement(ethers.utils.parseEther('10'));

    // The bidder paid 110 ETH, even though they could have only paid 20 ETH
    // as the MinBidIncrement changed from 100 to 10
    await instance
      .connect(bidder2)
      .placeBid(0, bidder2_bidAmount, { value: bidder2_collateralAmount });
  });
});
```

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

* Any parameters updates should be enforced from the next auction
* Introduce a mechanism of pausing the auctions, so that no bids go through while the auctions are paused and the parameters are being updated