Abundant Pickle Gorilla

medium

# Potential for Unbounded Loop in `_cancelAllBids`

Medium 

## Summary
The `_cancelAllBids` function iterates over all auction rounds to cancel bids. If there are a large number of rounds, this could result in excessive gas costs, potentially leading to out-of-gas errors and making the function fail or become unusable.

## Vulnerability Detail
The `_cancelAllBids` function is designed to iterate through all auction rounds associated with a token and cancel any existing bids for a given bidder. This function does not limit the number of iterations, which could become problematic as the number of auction rounds grows over time.
```solidity
/**
     * @notice Cancel bids for all rounds
     */
    function _cancelAllBids(uint256 tokenId, address bidder) internal {
        EnglishPeriodicAuctionStorage.Layout
            storage l = EnglishPeriodicAuctionStorage.layout();

        uint256 currentAuctionRound = l.currentAuctionRound[tokenId];
// @audit Unbounded Loop
@>        for (uint256 i = 0; i <= currentAuctionRound; i++) {
            Bid storage bid = l.bids[tokenId][i][bidder];

            if (bid.collateralAmount > 0) {
                // Make collateral available to withdraw
                l.availableCollateral[bidder] += bid.collateralAmount;

                // Reset collateral and bid
                bid.collateralAmount = 0;
                bid.bidAmount = 0;
            }
        }
    }
```

## Impact
In scenarios where there are a significant number of auction rounds, the gas cost for executing this function could exceed block gas limits, resulting in out-of-gas errors. 
This would effectively prevent users from canceling their bids, leading to a loss of functionality and potentially locking funds in the form of collateral.

## Code Snippet
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-02-radicalxchange/blob/main/pco-art/contracts/auction/EnglishPeriodicAuctionInternal.sol#L422

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation
consider implementing a pattern that avoids the need for unbounded loops.
- One approach could be to limit the number of rounds processed in a single transaction, allowing users to incrementally cancel bids across multiple transactions if necessary.
-  Use a mapping
