Electric Champagne Mole

medium

# The token owner can monopoly it, without paying anything if there are no fees.

## Summary
Because of the way the token Owner's collateral is calculated when bidding in his token Auction, He can prevent the fair Auction process for other bidders.

## Vulnerability Detail

When the token Holder bids for his token, he does not need to pay any collateral. He just needs to pay the `fees` which corresponds to the `bidAmount` he set.

[auction/EnglishPeriodicAuctionInternal.sol#L327](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-02-radicalxchange/blob/main/pco-art/contracts/auction/EnglishPeriodicAuctionInternal.sol#L327)
```solidity
    function _placeBid( ... ) internal {
        ...

        uint256 feeAmount;
        address currentBidder;
        if (IStewardLicense(address(this)).exists(tokenId)) {
            currentBidder = IStewardLicense(address(this)).ownerOf(tokenId);
        } else {
            currentBidder = l.initialBidder;
        }

        if (bidder == currentBidder) {
            // If current bidder, collateral is entire fee amount
<@          feeAmount = totalCollateralAmount;
        } else { ... }

        ...
    }
```

Then, the function checks if the fees collected are right or not.

[auction/EnglishPeriodicAuctionInternal.sol#L337-L340C11](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-02-radicalxchange/blob/main/pco-art/contracts/auction/EnglishPeriodicAuctionInternal.sol#L337-L340C11)
```solidity
    function _placeBid( ... ) internal {
        ...

        // @audit Check if the `feeAmount` corresponds to that `bidAmount` is correct or not
        require(
<@          _checkBidAmount(bidAmount, feeAmount),
            'EnglishPeriodicAuction: Incorrect bid amount'
        );

        ...
    }
```

Let's take an example:

- `10%` fees
  - The normal Bidder needs to pay `11 ether` to make the prize `10 ether`
  - The token owner needs to pay `1 ether` to make the prize `10 ether`

- `1%` fees
  - The normal Bidder needs to pay `10.1 ether` to make the prize `10 ether`
  - The token owner needs to pay `0.1 ether` to make the prize `10 ether`

- `0.1%` fees
  - The normal Bidder needs to pay `10.01 ether` to make the prize `10 ether`
  - The token owner needs to pay `0.01 ether` to make the prize `10 ether`

---

Know if there is no fees (fees equals zero), token Owner can set the price to `type(uint256).max` easily without paying anything as collateral.

This is the way the function is designed to work. But because of the inverse proportion, the less fee taken from bidders, the easiest skyrocketing the prize by the token owner. And if the fee is set to zero, the Owner can make the prize reach infinity.

This will make the Periodic process unfair, as the token owner can hold it, and just make a bid without paying collateral before ending the auction to prevent sending it to the `repossessor`
 
_NOTE: since the protocol will be deployed in Optmism, the gas price will not be that much for the token owner._

## Impact
The token owner can hold the token forever, breaking the periodic Auction mechanism. 

## Code Snippet
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-02-radicalxchange/blob/main/pco-art/contracts/auction/EnglishPeriodicAuctionInternal.sol#L327

## Tool used
Manual Review

## Recommendation
This issue can mitigated by either:

- Make the token Owner pay for the prize of the token as well, and change `closeAuction` logic when he is the winner

- Make a `threshold` for the token owner to not pass it. for example, we can make him not make a `bidAmount` greater than `100 Ether`. 