Jumpy Glass Haddock

high

# Highest bidder can cancel his bid

High severity

## Summary

The highest bidder is not supposed to be able to cancel his bid, but the function `EnglishPeriodicAuctionInternal::_cancelAllBids` allows it.

## Vulnerability Detail

The function "" `EnglishPeriodicAuctionInternal::_cancelBid` has this check 

```solidity
require(
            bidder != l.highestBids[tokenId][round].bidder,
            'EnglishPeriodicAuction: Cannot cancel bid if highest bidder'
        );
```

that blocks any call that tries to cancel the highest bid. However, this check is not made in the function `EnglishPeriodicAuctionInternal::_cancelAllBids`, thus allowing the highest bidder to call `EnglishPeriodicAuctionFacet::cancelAllBidsAndWithdrawCollateral`

```solidity

function cancelAllBidsAndWithdrawCollateral(uint256 tokenId) external {
        _cancelAllBids(tokenId, msg.sender);
        _withdrawCollateral(msg.sender);
    }

```

 and cancel the highest bid.

## Impact

One of the essential features of the project is broken. Allows bidders to inflate the price purposely, and cancelling out when they´re about to win, allowing an attack that proceeds as follows:
1: Attacker bids with 2 accounts (2 different addresses)
2: Bids as low as he can with one and with the other bids in a desproportionate way just after(way above of the estimated price) not allowing other bids in between. 
3: Other potential bidders don't participate in the auction because the price has gotten unaffordable.
4: Attacker calls with the 2nd account`EnglishPeriodicAuctionFacet::cancelAllBidsAndWithdrawCollateral`, that calls  `EnglishPeriodicAuctionInternal::_cancelAllBids`, canceling the highest bid last second (this call does not cancel the first bid because it has a different bidder address). Because cancelling a bid does not rise the timer, leaves the extremely low bid of his first account the only other bid, winning the auction without investing barely any money.

## Code Snippet

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-02-radicalxchange/blob/main/pco-art/contracts/auction/EnglishPeriodicAuctionInternal.sol#L416-L434

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

Add the check from the `EnglishPeriodicAuctionInternal::_cancelBid` function into the `EnglishPeriodicAuctionInternal::_cancelAllBids` function:

```diff

function _cancelAllBids(uint256 tokenId, address bidder) internal {
        EnglishPeriodicAuctionStorage.Layout
            storage l = EnglishPeriodicAuctionStorage.layout();

        uint256 currentAuctionRound = l.currentAuctionRound[tokenId];

        for (uint256 i = 0; i <= currentAuctionRound; i++) {
            Bid storage bid = l.bids[tokenId][i][bidder];

-           if (bid.collateralAmount > 0) {
+           if (bid.collateralAmount > 0 && bidder != l.highestBids[tokenId][i].bidder) {
                // Make collateral available to withdraw
                l.availableCollateral[bidder] += bid.collateralAmount;

                // Reset collateral and bid
                bid.collateralAmount = 0;
                bid.bidAmount = 0;
            }
        }
    }

```